•	Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?

This application was designed to track current inventory in a warehouse. One of the requirements for the project was to have a database with two distinct tables. One table would store log in information, and the other table would store inventory items. The inventory table would be portrayed in a grid view so that the user can see the name of the item as well as the quantity of each item. Another requirement of the project was to have multiple screens. One for the user to log in with their username and password, and if they have never used the application before it would take them to a screen where they would create their account. The application also needed to have a way for the user to add, remove, and update items that were in the inventory database. Lastly, a requirement for notifications for when the current stock of an item has reached zero. 

•	What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?

In order to produce a user-centered UI for the application each screen was user friendly. Therefore, even if a user has had no prior experience with the application, they could find their way around with a simplified design. The user log in screen was straightforward in letting the user type in the username and password. If the user did not have a log in yet, they could hit a button that said, “new user”. This would take them to a new screen that lets them set up an account in the database.  Once the user logged in, the application would display the current inventory items as well as the current stock of each item. Each item was on a separate row in the grid, and there was a trash can icon that let the user delete the specified item if it was no longer carried by the warehouse. If the user wanted to add new items, I used a big plus button that would specify the addition of new items. My designs were successful because it was simple and not overbearing for new users. When major companies switch computer applications or systems, the users of the system need to learn a new system in order to do their jobs efficiently. With the application being simplified, it allows for new users to pick up on the functionality of the application very fast.

•	How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?

When approaching the coding aspect of the application, I abided by the requirements that were given to make the app function accordingly. Meaning that I used the specified needs of the users to design the functionality of the application. One strategy I used for the app was to design the layout on paper, and then incorporate the functionality accordingly. Such as if the user was to create an account, the system would store the username and password in a database for when she/he logs in next time. Another strategy that I used was to vigorously test the application to ensure that it acts accordingly, and that the users information would be safe from injection. These can be applied in the future by continuous practice in order to ensure that the information that is stored in the applications database is safe, and that the application does not crash when receiving values that are unexpected.

•	How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?

I used the emulator a lot during the duration of this project. Meaning that once a unit was done, I would run the application and ensure that it acted accordingly. Basically, I would try to make the application crash, and try to find the reason why it did. This process would reveal that there is some data leaks at times, and cause the app to run slower than intended. This process is extremely important in any application because if the developer does not test their work. It would not only negatively effect the person that developed the application, but also the company that they work for. It is also important to test the application because you want to make sure that the information that’s currently in the database is out of harms reach. 

•	Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?

The challenge that I had to overcome was the overall design. There are so many ways that you can design an application, but figuring out the correct way to do it all was a headache. I had to innovate multiple designs into one setting that would correlate with the last screen. Before getting started, I drew multiple screen layouts and tried to figure out what one was the best out of the options. Once putting everything into play, I combined multiple layouts to simplify things for the user. 

•	In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?

The specific component of the mobile app that I was particularly successful at was the design of the aspect. This is where I think I did the best when it came to having it stand out compared to other applications that currently exist. I spent a lot of time ensuring that the application would be simplistic and user friendly so users would not get frustrated trying to figure out what button does what function. 

